
Selenium is an automation testing Tool. It automates the testing of web applications on different browsers. Selenium allows testers and developers to write automation test scripts in many programming languages, like Java, Ruby, Python, C.

Selenium supports cross browser testing on web browsers, such as Google Chrome, Apple’s Safari, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, Opera. It supports cross platform testing, It can run across multiple supported operating systems. The platforms supported by Selenium are Windows, Linux, Mac OS. 


The Selenium WebDriver architecture consists of four major components:

Selenium Client Libraries/ Language Bindings
JSON Wire Protocol
Browser Drivers
Real Browsers

Selenium Client Libraries:
It contains methods and classes of Selenium WebDriver that are needed to create test automation scripts.

Selenium libraries can be installed  using package installers available languages. 
A Selenium client library  provides an application programming interface (API)a set of functions that performs the Selenium commands from the test script.

JSON Wire Protocol
----------------------
Selenium WebDriver 3.0 uses JSON to communicate between Selenium client libraries and browser drivers.

The JSON requests sent by the client are converted to HTTP requests for the server to understand and converted back to JSON format and sent it back to the client again. In this method, the internal logic of the browser is secret, and the server can communicate with the Selenium client , with any programming language.

Browser Drivers
----------------
Browser drivers communicate between the Selenium client libraries and the real browsers. They help us in running Selenium commands on the browser. It is the main component of Selenium WebDriver responsible for executing user actions, like mouse clicks, page navigation, button clicks on the browser. 
 

The test command sends a  HTTP request using the JSON Wire Protocol, which is sent to the browser driver.
This HTTP request is sent to  the HTTP Server.
The HTTP Server directly drives the  execution on the  browser.
The browser then sends back the test status to the HTTP Server, 
The browser drivers  communicate between the Selenium script with different browsers.

Some popular browser drivers in Selenium are ChromeDriver, FirefoxDriver, SafariDriver, OperaBrowser, EdgeDriver.

Real Browsers
---------------

A  browser is an application or a software program used for searching content on the World Wide Web (WWW). 
Selenium supports  all popular and browsers like Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, Apple’s Safari, 